#### Blockchain:

A blockchain is a decentralized, immutable database.

Blockchain is based on a combination of technologies: 
- cryptography, digital signatures and hashing // already ingrained in our day to day life, for example with encrypted messaging or HTTPS
- P2P // less commonly used, think Napster and LimeWire
- Consensus protocols // blockchain-specific

#### Runtime (in the context of blockchain):

Your chain’s task, aka business logic, aka state transition function.

#### Token vs coin:

A crypto coin is just that: a coin, or means of payment. It stores value over time and enable businesses to account and pay for services.  
Coins exist on their own blockchain.

A token has a wider functionality. Like a coin, it's a digital asset, and it can be used as a payment method inside of its ecosystem. But: it also gives the holder a right to participate in the network.  
Tokens are generally hosted on another existing blockchain.

Two types of tokens:

- security tokens: represent the company's share
- utility tokens: represent certain use cases inside the project

#### Decentralized vs distributed:

A decentralized system is a subset of a distributed system. Decentralized means that there is no single point where the decision is made.

#### Node:

Nodes can be any kind of device: laptop, computer, big server...  
Nodes form the infrastructure of a blockchain. All nodes on a blockchain are connected to each other, and they constantly exchange the latest blockchain data with each other so all nodes stay up to date.   

Unlike mining, there is no financial incentive for running a node.

Full node:  
A node that contains a full copy of the transaction history of the blockchain.  
It can validate new transactions.

Miner:
A node that creates new blocks.  
Usually, is also a full node.  

Sources:  
https://blog.kaiko.com/an-in-depth-guide-into-how-the-mempool-works-c758b781c608

#### Block:

A blockchain's records are called blocks.  
They're linked using cryptography.  
Each block contains:

- a cryptographic hash of the previous block
- a timestamp
- transaction data (generally represented as a Merkle tree).

NB: A genesis block is the first block of a block chain.

#### Mining:

New bitcoins are generated by a competitive and decentralized process called "mining".  
Individuals are rewarded by the network for their services.  
Bitcoin miners are processing transactions and securing the network using specialized hardware and are collecting new bitcoins in exchange.

#### Byzantine fault tolerance:

See https://lisk.io/academy/blockchain-basics/how-does-blockchain-work/byzantine-fault-tolerance-explained  
and https://medium.com/loom-network/understanding-blockchain-fundamentals-part-1-byzantine-fault-tolerance-245f46fe8419

#### Proof Of Work:

Blockchain is a decentralized database, so it needs to be secured by incentivizing participants in the network.

This means:

- reward participants that facilitate the goals of the network
- make attackers waste money.

And securing the network this way is the job of the consensus algorithm.
2 types of consensus algorithms:

- proof of stake PoS
- proof of work PoW

A miner:

- verifies transactions
- organizes these transactions into a block
- distributes completed blocks (already solved) throughout the network, this happens very quickly and is not energy intensive.
- What is energy intensive is the “lottery system” or “puzzle” that miners need to solve in order to create a valid block.

// to be continued

#### Consensus algorithm:

A process in computer science, used to achieve agreement on a single data value among distributed systems.

#### Smart contract:

A smart contract is a piece of code that executes the business logic of a dApp ; aka is responsible for reading and writing data to the blockchain.
How it runs: it's executed by the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM).
What it is: it's usually written in Solidity.